DOC-4275: Document space template service (#79)
exoplatform/exo-documentation: docs/SpaceTemplates.rst

.. _SpaceTemplates:

######################
Managing Space Templates
######################

>     eXo Platform spaces are associated with templates. Each template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eXo Platform spaces are associated with templates at creation time. Each template
```

Author: ok

    defines the space visbility, registration and the list of applications.

>     This chapter will show steps for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This chapter will cover configuration for
```

Author: ok

    -  :ref:`Creating a new template <PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.CreateNew>`
       Steps to create a new space template.

    -  :ref:`Extending existing templates <PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.Extend>`
       Steps for extending existing space templates. Only applications list can be extended.

    -  :ref:`Defining an application handler for template <PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.handler.CreateNew>`
       Steps to define an application handler for a space template.

> .. tip:: In order to extend existing space templates or create a new one, you have to create your own :ref:`extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip:: In order to extend existing space templates or create a new one, you must have your own :ref:`extension <PLFDevGuide.eXoAdd-ons.PortalExtension>`.
```

Author: ok

> In this chapter we will consider that you have already an extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section assumes that you have already a working extension where you can plug the configuration.
```

Author: ok

> .. tip:: All the configurations samples given in this chapter have to be added to the portal configuration file of the extension war: *custom-form.war!/WEB-INF/conf/configuration.xml*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip:: All the configuration samples given in this chapter MUST be added to the portal configuration file of the extension war: *custom-extension.war!/WEB-INF/conf/configuration.xml*.
```

Author: ok

.. _PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.CreateNew:

============================
Creating a new template
============================

You can define a new space template by configuration using ``registerSpaceTemplatePlugin`` method of the ``org.exoplatform.social.core.space.spi.SpaceTemplateService``.

> A space template consists of *name*, *visibility*, *registration*, *banner*, *home application* and *applications list*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A space template consists of *name*, *visibility*, *registration*, *banner*, *home application* and *applications list* fields.
```

Author: ok

> To do so, you have to add the following configuration to your portal configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a space template, add the following configuration :
```

Author: ok

    .. code:: xml

        <external-component-plugins>
            <target-component>org.exoplatform.social.core.space.spi.SpaceTemplateService</target-component>

>             <!-- Default applications to be installed when creating a new space -->

Reviewer: this comment does not seem to be at the right place

Author: exact. I will move it

              <type>org.exoplatform.social.core.space.SpaceTemplateConfigPlugin</type>
              <init-params>
                <object-param>
                  <name>template</name>
                  <description>Space Template</description>
                  <object type="org.exoplatform.social.core.space.SpaceTemplate">
                    <field name="name"><string>custom</string></field>
                    <field name="visibility"><string>private</string></field>
                    <field name="registration"><string>open</string></field>
                    <field name="bannerPath"><string>war:/conf/social-extension/social/space-template/custom/banner.png</string></field>
                    <field name="homePageApplication">
                      <object type="org.exoplatform.social.core.space.SpaceApplication">
                        <field name="portletApp"><string>social-portlet</string></field>
                        <field name="portletName"><string>SpaceActivityStreamPortlet</string></field>
                        <field name="appTitle"><string>Home</string></field>
                      </object>
                    </field>

>                     <!-- Default applications to be installed when creating a new space -->

Reviewer 2: No need to add comment here, else, you will have to add comment everywhere

Author: ok

                    <field name="applications">
                      <collection type="java.util.ArrayList">
                        <value>
                          <object type="org.exoplatform.social.core.space.SpaceApplication">
                            <field name="portletApp"><string>social-portlet</string></field>
                            <field name="portletName"><string>SpaceSettingPortlet</string></field>
                            <field name="appTitle"><string>Space Settings</string></field>
                            <field name="removable"><boolean>false</boolean></field>
                            <field name="order"><int>2</int></field>
                            <field name="uri"><string>settings</string></field>

>                             <!--<field name="icon"><string>SpaceSettingsIcon</string></field>-->

Reviewer 2: No need to add this if it's commented

Author: ok

-  **Type**:
   ``org.exoplatform.social.core.space.SpaceTemplateConfigPlugin``

-  **Init-params**:

+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Object-param         | Description                                           |
+======================+=======================================================+
| **template**         | Sets the **SpaceTemplate** to ve defined.             |
+----------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Field name              | Possible value               | Description                                                                |
+=========================+==============================+============================================================================+
| **name**                | ``string``                   | The name of the space template.                                            |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **visibility**          | ``string``                   | The visibility of the space.                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **visibility**          | ``string``                   | The visibility setting of the space.                                               |
```

Author: ok

+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **registration**        | ``string``                   | The registration of the space.                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **registration**        | ``string``                   | The registration setting for the space.                                             |
```

Author: ok

+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **bannerPath**          | ``string``                   | The path of the space banner.                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **bannerPath**          | ``string``                   | The path of the space banner file inside your extension war.                                              |
```

Author: ok

+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **homePageApplication** | ``SpaceApplication``         | Sets the **Application** portlet to be the home page of a space.           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **homePageApplication** | ``SpaceApplication``         | The **Application** to use in the home page of a space.           |
```

Author: ok

> | **homePageApplication** | ``SpaceApplication``         | The **Application** to use in the home page of a space.                    |

Reviewer 2: IMO ` The **Application** ` shouldn't be bold. it should be in normal weight as seen in "applications" field definition

Author: ok

+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **applications**        | list of ``SpaceApplication`` | The list of the applications that are installed by default to a new space. |
+-------------------------+------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

-  **SpaceApplication**:

+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Field name        | Possible value   | Description                                                             |
+===================+==================+=========================================================================+
| **portletAp**     | ``string``       | The ``.war`` name file which has the portlet.                           |
+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **portletName**   | ``string``       | The name of portlet which is registered in the system.                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **portletName**   | ``string``       | The name of portlet which is registered in the system in its portlet.xml.                  |
```

Author: ok

+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **appTitle**      | ``string``       | The display name of the application.                                    |

Reviewer: is it an i18n key or a plain value ? How to translate ?

Author: it is a plain value. The translation of application and page names are performed with the following keys: "portletName.label.name"

+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | **removable**     | ``boolean``      | Specifies if the application is removed from the space or not.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **removable**     | ``boolean``      | Specifies if the application can be removed from the space or not.          |
```

Author: ok

+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **order**         | ``integer``      | The order of the application in the space navigation.                   |
+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **uri**           | ``string``       | The URI of the application in the page node.                            |
+-------------------+------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> In this example, you can define the banner image "banner.png" to the path ``custom-form.war!/WEB-INF/conf/social-extension/social/space-template/custom/`` of your extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, you can place the banner image file "banner.png" inside the war of your extension at ``custom-extension.war!/WEB-INF/conf/social-extension/social/space-template/custom/``
```

Author: ok

.. tip:: You can add translations for both space template name and description:

> - for space template name, add the property ``space.template.$TEMPLATE_NAME`` (for this example *space.template.custom*)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- for space template name, add the property in a resource bundle : ``space.template.$TEMPLATE_NAME`` (for this example *space.template.custom*)
```

Author: ok

- for space template description, add the property in a resource bundle : ``space.template.description.$TEMPLATE_NAME`` (for this example *space.template.description.custom*)

.. _PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.Extend:

============================
Extending existing templates
============================

> Sapce templates can be extended in order to add applications. Only applications can be added to space templates via extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Space templates can be extended in order to add applications. Only applications can be added to space templates via extension.
```

Author: ok

In order to add some applications to an existing template, ``extendSpaceTemplatePlugin`` method of the ``org.exoplatform.social.core.space.spi.SpaceTemplateService`` will be used in a component plugin.

> In your portal configuration of your extension, add the following configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add this to the configuration of your extension :
```

Author: ok

                            <field name="portletApp">
                              <string>task-management</string>
                            </field>
                            <field name="portletName">
                              <string>TaskManagementApplication</string>
                            </field>
                            <field name="appTitle">
                              <string>abcd</string>
                            </field>
                            <field name="removable">
                              <boolean>true</boolean>
                            </field>
                            <field name="order">
                              <int>3</int>
                            </field>
                            <field name="uri">
                              <string>tasks</string>
                            </field>
                          </object>
                        </value>
                      </collection>
                    </field>
                  </object>
                </object-param>
              </init-params>
            </component-plugin>
            ...
        </external-component-plugins>

> This will add "tasks" application to the "community" space template. The "tasks" application will the third application on "community" template according to the "order" field.

Reviewer: What happens in case of conflicts with the order ? How is it resolved ? Are the results predictible ?

Author: No problem, the first app defined in the list will be displayed before the other that have the same order

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this reminds me that we should change the order field to float or to use orders in predefined templates with numbers `100 * N`
@wkhessairi , please change the defined orders of predefined templates to use `100 * N` in order to allow extension to insert applications between predefined applications.

Author: okay

> This will add "tasks" application to the "community" space template. The "tasks" application will the third application on "community" template according to the "order" field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will add "tasks" application to the "community" space template. The "tasks" application will be the third application in the "community" space created according to the "order" field.
```

Author: ok

.. _PLFDevGuide.SpaceTemplates.handler.CreateNew:

============================
Defining an application handler
============================

> Each space template can have its own application handler. The application handler manipulates space applications: install, activate, deactivate, uninstall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application handlers manipulate space applications: install, activate, deactivate, uninstall. Each space template can have its own application handler. 
```

Author: ok

All applications handlers must implement the interface `SpaceApplicationHandler <https://github.com/exoplatform/social/blob/develop/component/core/src/main/java/org/exoplatform/social/core/space/spi/SpaceApplicationHandler.java>`__.

> In order to define an application handler, you have to add the following component plugin configuration to your portal configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to define an application handler, add the following configuration :
```

Author: ok
